Item 7.	 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, the introduction of Part I regarding “Forward-Looking Statements,” and Item 1A, “Risk Factors” appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

The Company is a Virginia corporation that has elected to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company is self-advised and invests in income-producing real estate, primarily in the lodging sector, in the U.S. As of December 31, 2024, the Company owned 221 hotels with an aggregate of 29,764 guest rooms located in urban, high-end suburban and developing markets throughout 37 states and the District of Columbia, including two hotels with a total of 206 guest rooms classified as held for sale, one of which was sold to an unrelated party in February 2025, while the other is expected to be sold in the first quarter of 2025. Substantially all of the Company’s hotels operate under Marriott or Hilton brands. The hotels are operated and managed under separate management agreements with 16 hotel management companies, none of which are affiliated with the Company. The Company’s common shares are listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “APLE.”

Recent Hotel Portfolio Activities

The Company continually monitors market conditions and attempts to maximize shareholder value by investing in properties that it believes provide superior value over the long term. Consistent with this strategy and the Company’s focus on investing in rooms-focused hotels, in 2024, the Company acquired two hotels for an aggregate purchase price of $196.3 million: an existing 234-guest-room AC Hotel in Washington, D.C. and a 262-guest-room Embassy Suites in Madison, Wisconsin that was purchased at the completion of development. The Company utilized proceeds from the sale of properties and borrowings under its Revolving Credit Facility to fund these acquisitions. The Company plans to utilize its available cash, net proceeds from the sale of shares under the ATM program, proceeds from the sales of properties or borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities for any future hotel acquisitions. 

As of December 31, 2024, the Company had one outstanding contract, which was entered into during May 2023, for the potential purchase of a hotel in Nashville, Tennessee for an expected purchase price of approximately $98.2 million. The hotel is under development and is currently planned to be completed and opened for business in late 2025, as a 260-guest-room Motto. As of December 31, 2024, a $1.1 million contract deposit (refundable if the seller does not meet its obligations under the contract) had been paid. If the closing occurs, the Company plans to utilize its available cash or borrowings, including borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities available at closing, to purchase the hotel under contract. Although the Company is working towards acquiring this hotel, there are a number of conditions to closing that have not yet been satisfied, and there can be no assurance that closing on this hotel will occur under the outstanding purchase contract. If the seller meets all of the conditions to closing, the Company is obligated to specifically perform under the purchase contract and acquire this hotel. As this hotel is under development, at this time, the seller has not met all of the conditions to closing.

 

For its existing portfolio, the Company monitors each property’s profitability, market conditions and capital requirements and attempts to maximize shareholder value by disposing of properties when it believes that superior value can be provided from the sale of the property. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company sold six hotels in five separate transactions with unrelated parties for a combined gross sales price of approximately $63.4 million, resulting in a combined gain on the sales of approximately $19.7 million, net of transaction costs. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the sale of two of the hotels to complete a like-kind exchange, in accordance with Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for the acquisition of the AC Hotel in Washington, D.C., which was completed in March 2024. The net proceeds from the sale of the other four hotels were used for share repurchases and general corporate purposes.

New York Independent Boutique Hotel Lease

 

In May 2023, the Company entered into an operating lease for an initial 15-year term with a third-party hotel operator at its independent boutique hotel in New York, New York for all hotel operations of the hotel’s 210 guest rooms. Lease revenue from this property is recorded in other revenue in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. As a result of the lease and transfer of possession to the operator, this property has been excluded from the Company’s hotel and guest room counts since May 2023. As a result of the operator's failure to make lease payments, the Company has commenced legal proceedings to remove the operator from possession of the hotel. The Company intends to enforce its rights under the lease and transition management of the hotel to a third-party manager, however, the removal process is still ongoing and the timing of the resolution of this matter and the transition of management operations cannot be predicted at this time.